Sauces and Condiments



Sauces



Pasta Sauces



Meat Sauce

Homemade Spaghetti Sauce with Ground Beef

















4.7
(1,538)
1,145 Reviews
249 Photos
This recipe has been handed down from my mother. It is a family favorite and will not be replaced! (Definite husband pleaser!) Serve over any variety of hot cooked pasta.

Submitted by
Hank's Mom

Updated on May 22, 2024



Tested by
 Allrecipes Test Kitchen
 



Tested by
Allrecipes Test Kitchen
 
The Allrecipes Test Kitchen staff are a team of culinary pros who make and vet recipes using only equipment you'd find in a home kitchen. Staff credentials vary but include training at the Culinary Institute of America; kitchen stints in fine dining restaurants; and countless hours in the test kitchen itself.



Meet the Allrecipes Test Kitchen




 
 
Save








Rate





 
Print










Share





 

 

 Add Photo




249




249



249



249



 

Prep Time:
10 mins


Cook Time:
 1 hr 5 mins


Total Time:
 1 hr 15 mins


Servings:
8 


Jump to Nutrition Facts

 Jump to recipe




 There's nothing like classic spaghetti and meat sauce to bring people together around the dinner table. This homemade spaghetti sauce with ground beef recipe will satisfy all your comfort food cravings.


  How to Make Spaghetti Sauce with Ground Beef  
 Restaurant-worthy spaghetti sauce with ground beef is just a few steps away. You'll find the full recipe below, but here's a brief overview of what you can expect:


  Cook Beef and Veggies  
 Cook ground beef in a saucepan over medium-high heat with garlic, onion, and green pepper. Stir until the meat is brown and crumbly. The vegetables should be tender.


  Add Tomato Products and Season  
 Stir diced tomatoes, tomato sauce, and tomato paste into the beef mixture. Add oregano, basil, salt, and pepper. Simmer until thick and aromatic, then serve over cooked spaghetti noodles.


  Troubleshooting Spaghetti Sauce  
 If your spaghetti sauce didn't turn out exactly how you wanted it to, don't worry! There's probably an easy fix.


  How to Thicken Spaghetti Sauce  
 This recipe should result in a perfectly thick spaghetti sauce. But things happen! If you somehow end up with a runny consistency, there are a few ways to thicken it. You could simmer the sauce for a few more minutes — this will reduce some of the liquid and leave you with a thicker sauce.


 For a quicker fix, make a slurry with one part water and one part cornstarch. Stir the slurry slowly into the sauce until you've reached the desired thickness.


  What Herbs to Add to Spaghetti Sauce  
 This top-rated recipe calls for garlic, oregano, basil, salt, and pepper. However, you can certainly adjust, eliminate, or add seasonings to suit your taste. To make this spaghetti sauce your own, you could add parsley or spice things up with crushed red pepper. Just remember to taste the sauce every time you add an ingredient so you don't accidentally add too much or too little.


  How Long to Simmer Spaghetti Sauce  
 We love the texture and flavor of this spaghetti sauce when it simmers for about an hour. If you'd like your sauce a little thinner, reduce the time a bit. Meanwhile, if you like it a little thicker, let it simmer for a bit longer.


9 Mistakes You Might Be Making When Cooking Pasta


 



 
 Photo by Sherri.

  What Goes With Spaghetti?  
 Looking for something delicious to pair with your spaghetti and meat sauce? Try one of these irresistible ideas:


 Toasted Garlic BreadPanzanella SaladCaesar Salad SupremeQuick and Easy Garlic Broccoli with ParmesanSauteed Zucchini


  How Long Does Spaghetti Last In the Fridge?  
 Store your cooked noodles and your spaghetti sauce with ground beef separately. The spaghetti noodles will last for up to 5 days in an airtight container in the fridge. The ground beef sauce, meanwhile, will last for 3 to 4 days in an airtight container in the fridge.


What to Do With Leftover Spaghetti


  Can You Freeze Spaghetti Sauce?  
 Yes! You can absolutely freeze spaghetti sauce. It's a great way to deal with leftovers and meal prep at the same time. To freeze spaghetti sauce, ladle it into zip-top freezer bags in serving-sized portions. Squeeze out the excess air, seal, label with the date, lay flat in the freezer, and freeze for up to six months.


  How to Reheat Frozen Spaghetti Sauce  
 Refrigerated spaghetti sauce can be reheated in a couple different ways. Microwave in 10-second increments (stirring between increments) or reheat on the stove, stirring frequently.


 Thaw frozen spaghetti sauce in the fridge overnight. Reheat thawed sauce on the stove, stirring frequently.


  Allrecipes Community Tips and Praise  
 "Very good 'go-to' recipe for traditional spaghetti sauce," according to Polly G. "I had all the ingredients on hand and the flavor was great — even better the next day. It made a good batch so I was able to freeze some for a quick dinner. I'll definitely be making this again!"


 "What more can I say about this recipe that hasn't already been said," raves sheribdb. "I did toss in some fresh mushrooms, but otherwise it's perfect just the way it is. It's absolutely delicious!"


 "I've been looking for a simple yet robust sauce to try," says Stellar912. "This is perfect! And with all the ingredients on hand, this was easy. I added two onions and a huge green pepper because I like my sauce zesty."


 Editorial contributions by Corey Williams.




 



Cook Mode
(Keep screen awake)

Ingredients
 






1/2x








1x








2x



 



Oops! Something went wrong. Our team is working on it.










This recipe was developed at its original yield. Ingredient amounts are automatically adjusted, but cooking times and steps remain unchanged. Note that not all recipes scale perfectly.

Original recipe (1X) yields 8 servings

 

1 pound ground beef


1 medium onion, chopped


4 cloves garlic, minced


1 small green bell pepper, diced


1 (28 ounce) can diced tomatoes


1 (16 ounce) can tomato sauce


1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste


2 teaspoons dried oregano


2 teaspoons dried basil


1 teaspoon salt


½ teaspoon ground black pepper



Directions


 Gather all ingredients.

 



 
 Dotdash Meredith Food Studios




 Combine ground beef, onion, garlic, and green pepper in a large saucepan over medium-high heat. Cook and stir until meat is browned and crumbly and vegetables are tender, 5 to 7 minutes. Drain grease.

 



 
 Dotdash Meredith Food Studios




 Stir diced tomatoes, tomato sauce, and tomato paste into the pan. Season with oregano, basil, salt, and pepper. Simmer spaghetti sauce for 1 hour, stirring occasionally.

 



 
 Dotdash Meredith Food Studios




 Serve hot and enjoy!

 



 
 DOTDASH MEREDITH FOOD STUDIOS




 
Save





 
Print







 I Made It




4,334
home cooks made it!

Nutrition Facts (per serving)



185
Calories


9g 
Fat


15g 
Carbs


12g 
Protein





 
Show Full Nutrition Label
Hide Full Nutrition Label






Nutrition Facts



Servings Per Recipe
8




Calories
185





% Daily Value *



Total Fat
9g


12%




Saturated Fat
4g


18%




Cholesterol
35mg


12%




Sodium
931mg


40%




Total Carbohydrate
15g


5%




Dietary Fiber
4g


13%




Total Sugars
9g




Protein
12g


25%




Vitamin C
28mg


31%




Calcium
72mg


6%




Iron
4mg


20%




Potassium
785mg


17%




* Percent Daily Values are based on a 2,000 calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs.
** Nutrient information is not available for all ingredients. Amount is based on available nutrient data.
(-) Information is not currently available for this nutrient. If you are following a medically restrictive diet, please consult your doctor or registered dietitian before preparing this recipe for personal consumption. 




























 








 Add Your Photo




 
Photos of Homemade Spaghetti Sauce with Ground Beef

 
01
of 249












Photo by 
DOTDASH MEREDITH FOOD STUDIOS

 


 
02
of 249











Photo by 
Rita Rodgers-Barker

















06/22/2025



A keeper!



Great flavors



Easy to follow
Delicious 


 
03
of 249











Photo by 
Vinny Burgos

















11/01/2024
I added red and yellow peppers along side the green. I substituted beef with Italian sausage. Served with white rice. 


 
04
of 249











Photo by 
Rue

















08/12/2024



A keeper!



Great flavors



Easy to follow



Worth the effort



Crowd-pleaser



Family favorite
Great recipe-- It took me back to family dinners growing up. It seems like nothing tastes as magical as it once did, but this sauce absolutely lit me up. Thank you. 


 
05
of 249











Photo by 
MirthPho5686

















03/19/2024



Easy to follow



A keeper!



Worth the effort



Crowd-pleaser
Only substitute we made was we used ground hot Italian sausage instead of ground beef. Was amazing even with just bread. Kids took leftovers to lunch. 


 
06
of 249











Photo by 
B K ONeal

















12/03/2023
So Easy and Tasty. Family loved it 


 
07
of 249











Photo by 
ggoins2277

















10/14/2023
I liked it and I have made a couple of times. Each time I make it, it taste better and better. That's because I make it to my liking. I add all the ingredients, however I add more seasonings and sugar. To me the sugar cuts that acidic taste (my own preference). I also add a dry seasoning spaghetti pack from Kroger's, and garlic and onion powder. Both gives my recipes that extra little kick. This recipe at least pointed me in the right direction. The OTC sauces no longer tasted good to me anymore. These companies are changing up a lot of things to save money. Oh well. This recipe is a keeper. I decided to make this time in a pan in order to layer the spaghetti with cheese (mozzarella and parmesan).P.S. If someone does or doesn't like something in the recipe it doesn't mean the recipe is not a good one. Just prepare to your liking. I recommend if you want to make your sauce from scratch. Thank you for sharing!! 


 
08
of 249











Photo by 
FancyDip6808

















08/28/2023
I substituted the 16oz tomato sauce and 6oz paste with 1 (24oz) jar of Prego since I figured it might need a little something extra after reading some reviews, and it turned out great! I did like the peppers in there (not my normal pick for going in spaghetti), but I'll probably add or sub it out for mushrooms next time. Topped with mozzarella. 


 
09
of 249











Photo by 
SpiffyCocoa3097

















05/12/2023
OMG! THIS RECIPE WAS WONDERFUL. MY FAMILY LOVED IT! WILL DEFINITELY MAKE AGAIN! ITS GONNA BE MY GO TO SPAGHETTI RECIPE ❤️ THANKS FOR SHARING!!! 


 
10
of 249











Photo by 
Tx Tnt

















04/16/2023
Yummy and delicious 


1


2


3


4


5



Next